I found the unit architecture useful for
many applications I have worked on, and there's this one of the most important and foundational neural network
architectures of computer vision today. So in this video, let's dig in the details
of exactly how the U-Net works. This is what a U-Net looks like. I know there's a lot going on in this
picture, is okay we'll break it down and step it through one step at the time. But I want to quickly show you
the final outcome of what a unit architecture looks like. And this, by the way,
is also why it's called a unit, because when you draw it like this,
it looks a lot like a U. But let's break it down and
build this back up one piece at a time. So we're going to make sure we know what
all of the things going on in this diagram actually are doing. These ideas were due to Olaf Ranneberger
for the Fisher and Thomas Bronx. Fun fact,
when they wrote the original unit paper, they were thinking of the application
of biomedical image segmentation, really segmenting medical images. But these ideas turned out to be
useful for many other computer vision, semantic segmentation
applications as well. So the input to the unit is an image,
let's say, is h by w by three, for
three channels RGB channels. I'm going to visualize this
image as a thin layer like that. I know that previously we had taken
neural network layers and drawn them, as three D blocks like this, where
this might be rise of h by w by three. But in order to make
the unit diagram look simpler going to imagine just
looking at this edge on. So all you see is this. And the rest of this is hidden behind this
dark blue rectangle that I've have drawn. And so that's what this is. The height of this is, the height h and
the width of this is three, right, with the number of channels,the depth is 3. So it looks very thin. So to simplify the unit diagram, I'm
going to use these rectangles rather than three D shapes to
illustrate the algorithm. Now, the first part of the unit uses
normal feed forward neural network convolutional layers. So I'm going to use a black arrow
to denote a convolutional layer, followed by a value activation function. So the next layer, maybe we'll say that,
we have increased the number of channels a little bit, but the dimension is still
height by width by a little bit more channels and then another convolutional
layer with a rather activation function. Now we're still in the first
half of the neural network. We're going to use Max pooling
to reduce the height and width. So maybe you end up with a set of
activations where the height and width is lower, but maybe a sticker, so
the number of channels is increasing. Then we have two more layers of
normal feet forward convolutions with a radio activation function, and
then the supply Max pooling again. And so you get that, right. And then you repeat again. And so you end up with this. So, so far, this is the normal convolution
layers with activation functions that you've been used to from earlier videos
with occasional max pooling layers. So notice that the height of this
layer I deal with is now very small. So we're going to start to apply
transpose convolution layers, which I'm going to note by
the green arrow in order to build the dimension of this
neural network back up. So with the first transpose
convolutional layer or trans conv layer, you're going to get a set of
activations that looks like that. In this example, we did not
increase the height and width, but we did decrease the number of channels. But there's one more thing you need to
do to build a unit, which is to add in that skip connection which I'm going
to denote with this grey arrow. What the skip connection does is
it takes this set of activations and just copies it over to the right. And so the set of activations
you end up with is like this. The light blue part comes from
the transpose convolution, and the dark blue part is just
copied over from the left. To keep on building up the unit we
are going to then apply a couple more layers of the regular convolutions, followed by our value activation
function so denoted by the black arrows, like so, and then we apply another
transpose convolutional layer. So green arrow and here we're going
to start to increase the dimension, increase the height and
width of this image. And so now the height is getting bigger. But here, too,
we're going to apply a skip connection. So there's a grey arrow again where
they take this set of activations and just copy it right there,
over to the right. More convolutional layers and other
transpose convolution, skip connection. Once again, we're going to take
this set of activations and copy it over to the right and
then more convolutional layers, followed by another transpose convolution. Skip connection, copy that over. And now we're back to a set
of activations that is the original input images,
height and width. We're going to have a couple more layers
of a normal fee forward convolutions, and then finally, to take this and
map this to our segmentation map, we're going to use a one by one
convolution which I'm going to denote with that magenta arrow to finally give
us this which is going to be our output. The dimensions of this output
layer is going to be h by w, so the same dimensions as our
original input by num classes. So if you have three classes to try and
recognize, this will be three. If you have ten different classes
to try to recognize in your segmentation at then that
last number will be ten. And so what this does is for every one of
your pixels you have h by w pixels you have, an array or a vector, essentially
of n classes numbers that tells you for our pixel how likely is that pixel to come
from each of these different classes. And if you take a arg max
over these n classes, then that's how you classify each of
the pixels into one of the classes, and you can visualize it like
the segmentation map showing on the right. So that's it. You've learned about the transpose
convolution and the unit architecture. Congrats getting to the end
of this week's videos. I hope you also enjoy working through
these ideas in the program exercise. Next week, we'll come back and talk
about some specialized architecture for face recognition and for your style
transfer where you get to create some really interesting artwork
using neural networks. Have fun with pro exercise, and
I look forward to seeing you next week.